Add translation agent skill guidelines for Thai (th) locale (#62170)
mistercrunch/Airflow: .github/skills/airflow-translations/locales/th.md

 <!-- SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0
      https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0 -->

> # Thai (th) Translation Guidelines for Apache Airflow

Reviewer: Small question regarding the document title, should we follow the same title format as other locale skill files (e.g., # Simplified Chinese (zh-CN)) for consistency?

```suggestion
# Thai (th)
```

> This document provides Thai-specific guidelines for translating Apache Airflow terminology and documentation.

Reviewer: Not sure if we should align this with other locale skill files by adding an explicit inheritance statement, for example:

“This document inherits all global rules from the parent [SKILL.md](../SKILL.md).”

Other locales seem to include this to clarify that global rules still apply. Would it make sense to add it here for consistency?

## Terms to Keep in English

The following technical terms should **remain in English** in Thai translations:

### Core Technical Terms (คำศัพท์ทางเทคนิค)

- **DAG** (Directed Acyclic Graph) - Keep as "DAG"
- **DAG Run** - Keep as "DAG Run"
- **Task Instance** - Keep as "Task Instance"
- **XCom** - Keep as "XCom"
- **Asset** - Keep as "Asset"
- **Backfill** - Keep as "Backfill"
- **Dataset** - Keep as "Dataset"
- **Pool** - Keep as "Pool"
- **Sensor** - Keep as "Sensor"
- **Hook** - Keep as "Hook"
- **Operator** - Keep as "Operator" (โอเปอเรเตอร์) or in English
- **DAGBag** - Keep as "DAGBag"

### UI Components (ส่วนประกอบของอินเทอร์เฟซ)

- **Tree View** - Keep as "Tree View" or translate as "มุมมองต้นไม้"
- **Graph View** - Keep as "Graph View" or translate as "มุมมองกราฟ"
- **Grid View** - Keep as "Grid View" or translate as "มุมมองกริด"
- **Calendar View** - Keep as "Calendar View" or translate as "มุมมองปฏิทิน"

> - **Gantt Chart** - Keep as "Gantt Chart" or translate as "แผนภูมิกันต์"

Reviewer 2: I think the word "แกนต์" is better here.

```suggestion
- **Gantt Chart** - Keep as "Gantt Chart" or translate as "แผนภูมิแกนต์"
```

Author: Thank you for your review. I’ve made the changes. Please take a look when you have time and let me know if anything else is needed from my end.

### Code and Technical References

- All Python class names, function names, and variables
- Configuration keys (e.g., `dag_id`, `task_id`)
- Command-line arguments and flags
- File paths and URLs

## Common Airflow Terms in Thai

### Core Concepts (แนวคิดหลัก)

| English | Thai | Notes |
|---------|------|-------|
| Task | งาน | Standard translation |
| Workflow | เวิร์กโฟลว์ | Transliterated |
| Pipeline | ไปป์ไลน์ | Transliterated |
| Connection | การเชื่อมต่อ | Standard translation |
| Variable | ตัวแปร | Standard translation |
| Provider | ผู้ให้บริการ | Standard translation |

> | Trigger | ทริกเกอร์ | Transliterated (ตริกเกอร์) |

Reviewer: Could we remove “(ตริกเกอร์)” here? “ทริกเกอร์” already reflects the standard transliteration, and keeping a single form may help avoid inconsistency.

| Scheduler | ตัวกำหนดการ | Standard translation |
| Executor | ผู้ดำเนินการ | Standard translation |
| Worker | ผู้ปฏิบัติงาน | Standard translation |
| Webserver | เว็บเซิร์ฟเวอร์ | Transliterated |
| Database | ฐานข้อมูล | Standard translation |

### Actions (การกระทำ)

| English | Thai | Notes |
|---------|------|-------|

> | Run | รัน / ดำเนินการ | Use "รัน" (transliterated) or "ดำเนินการ" |

Reviewer: For this term, it might be more natural in Thai to use “รัน” or “ทำงาน” instead, as these are more commonly used in technical contexts. What do you think?

Thai language does not have grammatical plural forms like English. Nouns remain the same regardless of quantity. Numbers and quantifiers are used to indicate plurality.

### Using Numerals with Thai

In Airflow UI and messages, numerals are typically formatted as:

- **1 Task**: 1 งาน (1 task)
- **2 Tasks**: 2 งาน (2 tasks) - noun form remains the same
- **Multiple Tasks**: งานหลายงาน (multiple tasks) - using classifier "หลาย"
- **All Tasks**: งานทั้งหมด (all tasks)

### Quantity Indicators

- ไม่มี (none) - 0 items
- หนึ่ง (one) - 1 item
- สอง (two) - 2 items
- หลาย (multiple/several) - 3+ items
- ทั้งหมด (all) - all items
- บางส่วน (some) - some items

## Script and Writing System

### Thai Script

1. **Direction**: Thai text is written from left to right (LTR) like English
2. **Script**: Use Thai script (ตัวอักษรไทย) for Thai translations
3. **Mixed Content**: When mixing Thai with English terms, maintain proper spacing
4. **Punctuation**: Thai uses specific punctuation marks alongside standard punctuation
5. **Numbers**: Arabic numerals (0-9) are commonly used in technical contexts

Example:

```text
งาน DAG รันสำเร็จ (DAG run successful)
```

> ## Translation Style Guidelines

Reviewer: Would it be helpful to reference the existing Thai locale files as the authoritative terminology source, similar to other locale guidelines? This might help translators maintain consistency with established translations.

Reviewer: [The established zh-CN translations are defined in the existing locale files.](https://github.com/apache/airflow/blob/e0cd6e246c288d33f359ec2268b3d342832e9648/.github/skills/airflow-translations/locales/zh-CN.md?plain=1#L114)

- "Task failed" → "งานล้มเหลว"
- "Task instance" → "Task Instance" or "อินสแตนซ์งาน"
- "Task ID" → "Task ID" or "ไอดีงาน"

### 3. "DAG" Context

- "DAG run" → "การรัน DAG" or "DAG Run"
- "DAG ID" → "DAG ID" or "ไอดี DAG"
- "Sub DAG" → "DAG ย่อย" or "Sub DAG"

### 4. Configuration

- "Airflow Config" → "การกำหนดค่า Airflow" or "Airflow Config"
- "Connection ID" → "Connection ID" or "ไอดีการเชื่อมต่อ"
- "Pool name" → "Pool name" or "ชื่อพูล"

## Thai Linguistic Considerations

### 1. Word Order

Thai follows SVO (Subject-Verb-Object) word order, similar to English:

- English: "Task runs successfully"
- Thai: "งานรันสำเร็จ" (Task run successful)

### 2. No Articles

Thai language does not use articles (a, an, the):

- "the task" → "งาน" (task)
- "a connection" → "การเชื่อมต่อ" (connection)

### 3. No Tense Inflection

Thai does not conjugate verbs for tense. Time words and context indicate when actions occur:

- "ran" → "รันแล้ว" (ran already) or "รันไปแล้ว" (ran in the past)
- "will run" → "จะรัน" (will run)

### 4. Politeness Markers

In formal documentation and UI, polite particles may be used:

- ครับ (khrap) - for male speakers
- ค่ะ (kha) - for female speakers

> However, these are typically omitted in technical documentation to maintain conciseness.

Reviewer: Since UI strings are usually written in a gender-neutral tone, perhaps we could clarify that polite particles are generally not used in UI text to avoid potential inconsistency.

2. **Style Guide**: Follow formal Thai language conventions
3. **Glossary**: Maintain consistency with previously translated Airflow content
4. **Testing**: Test translations to ensure proper rendering and readability
5. **Community**: Refer to Thai technical documentation communities for consistency

## Examples

### UI Label Examples

```text
"Tree View" → "มุมมองต้นไม้" or "Tree View"
"Graph View" → "มุมมองกราฟ" or "Graph View"
"Task Instances" → "Task Instances" or "อินสแตนซ์งาน"
"DAG Runs" → "DAG Runs" or "การรัน DAG"
```

### Message Examples

```text
"Task failed" → "งานล้มเหลว"
"DAG run successful" → "การรัน DAG สำเร็จ"
"XCom pushed" → "ดัน XCom แล้ว" or "XCom pushed"
"Connection test failed" → "การทดสอบการเชื่อมต่อล้มเหลว"
```

### Code Examples (Keep in English)

```python
# Don't translate code comments unless necessary
dag = DAG("my_dag", schedule_interval="@daily")
```

## Pluralization in gettext (for .po files)

Thai uses simple pluralization pattern with only two forms:

```text
# Plural expression: 0
# Forms: _one, _other

msgid "%d task"
msgid_plural "%d tasks"
msgstr[0] "%d งาน"
msgstr[1] "%d งาน"
```

> Both singular and plural forms use the same translation in Thai. The number suffix remains the same regardless of quantity.

Reviewer: Should we clarify the usage of the _other form similar to PR [#56353](https://github.com/apache/airflow/pull/56353/changes)?

That PR introduced wording like “ทั้งหมด” to express plurality contextually. Perhaps adding a brief note here could make the guideline clearer for translators.

> 

Reviewer 3: thanks for the change. a very small nit, can we remove this empty line before the license text, thanks

Author: Thanks for your review and I guess now everything is alright , please take a look when you have time and let me know if anything left from my end
